---
title: Asimov's Last Question
date: 16 June 2022
---

# Each human being is special

Each human being is special in that they add to the knowledge repository of the universal AC.
So, each life decisions and events howsoever unique or different is important. We need to
accumulate more and more knowledge from human beings to enrich the universal knowledge store.
If the universal AC is considered to be God, it is in God's service to live our lives to the
fullest and follow our dreams even if we are very different from the ones who have already worked
towards our dream.

The most fulfilling life hence becomes the one which makes the most out of our limited lifespan
and experience the most novel experiences. Also we should do something different in a less explored
domain or do excellent in an already existing one. We might also present the existing knowledge
in a new and novel way. All in all, we need to get out and explore the world explore the vast avenues
of knowledge that is in front of us. It is absolutely in God's service and what is expected of our life.

# Computer and AI as tools for synthesizing wisdom

The amount of knowledge generated by the human race is increasing at a rapid pace so much so that it is
impossible to keep track of it let alone find out new correlations and reveal new insights from the
existing knowledge to create wisdom. This is where data-chomping AI of today comes into the picture.

AI and modern computations work on massive amounts of data to synthesize new wisdom from existing knowledge
base. We are at a point where it is not possible for a single individual or even a team to fathom and
make use of the vast amount of knowledge we are generating. AI works best with a large quantity of
high quality data. As a result, our journey to answering the last question would rest on creating and
making better and better AI tools as our companion until it becomes powerful enough to make new and
better versions of itself.

# Preserving your knowledge and experience

It is not only recommended but absolutely essential to write down and preserve the experiences and knowledge
we gain in our lifetime from our unique life for the betterment of the next generation.

Preservation of knowledge is something that should be very important. We should devise new ways of keeping the
knowledge and experiences of past individuals in an easily accessible form. Computers can help in this
regard as well. They should be developed further to store massive amounts in an accessible way.

# Computers are an important part of our existence

We learn special languages to communicate effectively with computers. We also spend a lot of time
thinking and interacting with tools and services enabled by computers. Computers are undeniably an
important part of our very existence. We should put in more and more effort into computers as the
last question will finally be answered by a computer.

# Humanity as a whole consisting of individuals

All this knowledge acquisition and preservation, developing and training AI, etc should work at a planetary
level with the individual contribution of as many different experts as possible to bring together the various
life experiences and work with them.

# Call to life of action

The last question will be answered. How and when cannot be said but we *can* however decide if we play a
small and important part in the great journey of answering the last question. We owe this wonderful universe
our contribution by our individuality and life experiences. So we are all special as we are doing our part.
Now what part we are doing rests on our own. So go ahead and lead the life you always wanted to!
